So now we're going to move on from shadows and gradients to transformations and animations.
So this you can really use to do some pretty cool stuff but we'll start off with something pretty simple.
So let's start with a div with an ID of box and then we'll take our books and we'll give it a width
of 100 pixels and a height of 100 pixels a background color of red and just for fun we use the CSSA
property border radius of 10 pixels to give it slightly rounded corners.
And then we're going to see how we can apply a number of different transformations to this box some
of which may seem pretty trivial but when they get combined with an animation that's when you'll see
the power of them.
So we apply the transformation with transform and then a nice simple one would be translate and we might
want to make it 50 pixels to the right and 50 pixels down.
And that just shifts it right and down.
Now that might look pretty boring in itself but when we combine it with a box of a pseudo class and
we put the transformation in the pseudo class and we apply a transition
property to the box itself and a classic here would be one second.
And then ease in out and we'll look at what exactly is going on there in a moment.
But let's just see this in action.
So now we've got no transformation but when we hover the box slowly moves
from the animated state to its previous state and this is the key of how we do animation with CSSA transformations.
So obviously the one second here just describes the time it takes to do the transition the easy way
out means that it starts off slowly then gets a little bit quicker and then slows down a bit at the
end so just gives it sort of slightly more bouncy feel if you don't want that bouncy feel then you can
have a linear transition and that will then move without changing speed from one to the other.
If for some reason you want the transition
to be quick at the beginning and then ease in and then a linear one after that you can use AZN.
But for the vast majority probably easing out is going to look the best
All right.
So once you've got that figured out it's just a matter of practicing the other types of transformation
so we can do rotations using transform rotate.
So maybe we want to rotate 40 degrees we use 40 deg and then that will then apply on the hover.
You can of course apply the transformation to the box itself and just have it appear like that by default
if you want to.
We don't have to do animations here.
It's just a bit more fun when you're practicing to use animations.
We can make things bigger or smaller using transform scale.
So we give the X transform so maybe we want to double the size in the horizontal direction and maybe
we want to quadruple the size in the vertical direction see that happen.
There we go.
So you can see it's keeping the center the same there but it's stretching it out.
Horizontally and twice as much vertically.
And the last one I'll show you is a skew
where you can stretch it out different amounts in both directions.
So if we try 20 degrees and 30 degrees
see what that looks like get this sort of weird stretch effect.
So again it's the sort of thing you want to use Sutley you don't want probably to have a big effect
like that but it can just give a user a nice feeling if your buttons respond to that clicks in a nice
way.
And the scaling can be useful as well if you've got a lot of information on the page and the user hovers
over something you might want to make that thing a little bigger to make it easier for them to read.
So those are two the transformations that we can even do 3D transformations.
So to make this a little bit clearer We'll put some text in there this time.
And we'll have an aerial funt
and we'll send to
horizontally.
And because we're using Z-axis 3 Let's get a vertical alignment in there as well and we can do that
using display is flex to use a flex box which will look at more detail in the next video.
But once we've defined the display is Flex we can use a line items to center to apply a vertical centering.
But if we do that then instead of using text to line center we'll need to use justify content center
to get our horizontal centering.
And of course that should be font family the style arrogant.
That's better.
Maybe just make it a touch bigger
maybe even 200.
So let's apply a 3D transformation now.
First movies will be very tight.
X. So this rotates around the X or horizontal axis and that's try 180 degrees see what that looks like.
You can see we get this flip effect right.
Even rotates the text as well.
Of course we can do a rotate y to rotate around the vertical axis
like that and rotate that rotates around the imaginary axis coming out of the screen.
There we go.
And that's the basis of it.
You can do of course a lot more with CSSA three transformations and animations but that's as far as
we're going to take it here.
I've given several late in the document at the end of this chapter if you want to investigate more.
And if you do have an anti-Semite and want to start creating fancy animations or recreating complex
logos in CSSA which is a popular pastime for many then those links would be a good place to start.
For us though we're nearly done with CSSA three.
I've just got a few more things to show you and we'll do that in the final video of the section when
we look at the layout.